Ms. Sanders:  Good afternoon.
The first state visit
for the Trump administration
was a tremendous success,
and the First Lady,
in particular,
deserves a lot of the credit.
Her attention to every detail
and full engagement
in the planning
helped highlight
and showcase
the special relationship
between the United
States and France,
our oldest ally.
President Trump
and President Macron
also had a number of important
conversations on critical issues
facing each nation
at home and abroad.
As the President said yesterday,
the future between
the United States and France
has never looked brighter.
Tomorrow, the administration
will be participating
in the 25th anniversary
of Take Our Daughters
and Sons to Work Day.
The President looks forward to
welcoming many of your children
and the children of those who
work here at the White House.
As a reminder, this Saturday
is National Prescription
Take Back Day.
Across the country, many
businesses, medical offices,
state, local,
and tribal governments,
and first responders
will host drop-off events
where Americans can safely
dispose of unused medication.
Disposing of unused pills
can prevent the misuse
of commonly prescribed opioids.
During the last National
Take Back Day in October,
Americans disposed
of a record-breaking
900,000 pounds
of prescription pills.
The Trump administration
encourages
everyone to take part.
We can all be part
of the solution.
For more details on that,
I encourage you to visit
TakeBackDay.dea.gov to find
your local collection site
and learn more about
how to safely dispose
of prescription medication.
And with that,
I'll take your questions.
John.
The Press: I asked the President
yesterday about the allegations
that Dr. Ronny Jackson
is facing.
There are more allegations
that have been leveled at him
in the last 24 hours,
one of which might involve
a HIPAA violation,
or an alleged HIPAA violation.
Do you have anything more on
the allegations against Jackson?
Is the White House
saying anything about it?
Ms. Sanders: Yeah,
Dr. Jackson's record
as a White House physician
has been impeccable.
In fact, because Dr. Jackson
has worked within arm's
reach of three Presidents,
he has received more
vetting than most nominees.
Given his unique position
of trust and responsibility,
Dr. Jackson's background
and character
were evaluated during three
different administrations.
Dr. Jackson has had
at least four independent
background investigations
conducted during his time
at the White House, including
an FBI investigation conducted
as part of the standard
nomination vetting process.
During each of
those investigations,
Dr. Jackson received unanimous
praise from dozens of witnesses,
and the investigations
revealed no areas of concern.
Dr. Jackson has received glowing
evaluations from his superiors,
including several
from President Obama,
which said -- such as,
Dr. Jackson should
continue to promote
ahead of his peers
and  already at a level of
performance and responsibility
that exceeds his current rank.
The Press: But what about
some of these allegations
about overprescribing?
The other one that I just
mentioned a moment ago.
Ms. Sanders:  I think that makes
it pretty clear, in terms of --
a very thorough investigation
and vetting process
has taken place.
None of those things
had come up.
We're continuing to look
at anything beyond that.
Darlene.
The Press: Despite what you
just said there,
is the White House
doing any sort of additional
looking into Dr.
Jackson's background
in light of all
of the allegations?
Ms. Sanders: There's been,
again, a pretty thorough
vetting process done by the FBI,
as well as three other
independent investigations.
But that's part of what
the nomination process
of Congress should do
and what it's supposed
to look like,
and why they should move
forward with a hearing.
The Press: And since you are --
since the White House
and the President
are standing behind him,
will he ask the Senate
Veterans Committee
to reschedule his
confirmation hearing?
Ms. Sanders: We're continuing
to work with members
on the Hill.
Major.
The Press: Sarah, I've got one
on this and a couple
on foreign policy.
Ms. Sanders: A couple?
The Press: So, is it the
position of the administration
that the people who have raised
these allegations are lying?
Ms. Sanders: That's not what
I said. I said we've done --
multiple background checks
have taken place,
and we're continuing
to look at the situation.
The Press: Do you not
find them credible,
in other words,
these allegations?
Ms. Sanders: Again, these are
new, I can only speak to --
The Press: And do you think
there's anything that suggests
political motivation
behind them?
Ms. Sanders:  I can only speak
to some of the personal accounts
that those of us have,
as well as the records
that we have that
are substantiated through
a very detailed
and thorough background
investigation process.
The Press: So, on North Korea.
During the State
of the Union address,
the President described
the North Korean regime
as one that shamefully tried
an American, Otto Warmbier;
sent him back
to the country nearly dead;
starves its own people;
and is a dictatorship worse
than almost any other.
That's what he said
in the State of Union.
How could that also be true
if Kim Jong-un
is  honorable  and  open ?
How do you reconcile those two
assessments of the leader
and the regime
in North Korea?
Ms. Sanders:  The President is
referencing the conversations
that we've had ongoing
over the last month
or so in regards
to the meeting to take place
and their willingness
to denuclearize
on the Peninsula,
and that's --
The Press: So, he's changed
his appraisal of Kim Jong-un?
Ms. Sanders:  Certainly
not that,
but he wants to have
the ability to sit down
and have these conversations.
And in that process,
they have been open
with their willingness
to denuclearize,
and that's certainly
been the focus
and what we have been pushing
for and expect to happen.
The Press: He thinks
the regime has changed?
Ms. Sanders: I'm sorry?
The Press: He thinks
the regime has changed?
Ms. Sanders: We think that
the maximum pressure campaign
is working.
But again, we're not going
to let up on that campaign
until we see some of the words
that they've made go
into concrete action.
But they're moving
in the right direction.
John.
The Press: Thanks a lot, Sarah,
I wanted to get your reaction
to the ruling that came down
from a federal district
court judge here
in Washington
concerning DACA.
He said that the President's
decision to end DACA
was arbitrary and capricious.
So, what's your reaction
to this ruling?
The third federal judge to rule
against the President on DACA.
Ms. Sanders:  The DACA program
violates federal law.
President Obama
went around Congress
and created the illegal
DACA program.
We believe the judge's ruling
is extraordinarily broad
and wrong on the law.
What's worse is that
it creates an incentive
for more illegal immigrant
youth to come here
and causes them to expect
similar judicial policies
be applied to them.
This ruling is good news
for smuggling organizations
and criminal networks,
and horrible news
for our national security.
It's time for Congress
to do what the President
has called on them to do
and offer to be part of
and actually fix this problem.
The Press: Is it still the main
argument by the administration
that the reason
why it was necessary
to cut off the DACA program
was because of
the threat of lawsuits
by Republican attorneys general?
Ms. Sanders:  That was certainly
a big part of us
knowing that this is
an illegal program
and something that
Congress has the ability
to actually create laws.
And they're the ones that have
to be part of this process
and fix this problem.
Steve.
The Press: Yes, Sarah, I'd like
to ask you about the drop
in the ranking
for the United States
in the World Press
Freedom Index.
The United States
now down to 45.
And according to Reporters
Without Borders,
much of the blame for that
goes to the President
for his attacks on the media.
What's the reaction
of the White House?
And does it accept that
the President's comments
has denigrated our freedom of
the press in the United States?
Ms. Sanders:  Certainly,
would not --
would reject the idea
that the President
or this administration
has halted freedom of the press.
I think we're one of the most
accessible administrations
that we've seen in decades.
I think by mere presence
of standing up here
and taking your questions,
un-vetted,
is a pretty good example
of freedom of the press,
and I think it's ridiculous
to suggest otherwise.
John.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah,
two questions.
One on President Macron's visit
and the other on foreign policy.
Yesterday, there was
some scuttlebutt late
in the afternoon
that no Democrats were invited
to the dinner last night.
And then later,
a check of the list showed
that there were at least
four Democrats invited.
However, the accurate report
was there were no congressional
Democrats invited.
Now, going back to state dinners
to when President Roosevelt
hosted the King and Queen
of England in 1939,
and invited potential opponents,
there have always been
congressional Democrats
at state dinners.
Why the exception last night?
Ms. Sanders: Again, as you said,
there were Democrats
present at the dinner,
and the focus of this dinner was
to keep it intimate and small,
and that's exactly what we did.
There was a wide range of
individuals that participated,
and we think it was
a great success
and very proud of not just
the dinner but the entire visit,
and certainly the relationship
that we have with
our great ally in France.
The Press: But no
congressional Democrats.
Was there any discussion of that
in preparing the list?
Ms. Sanders:  Look, we talk with
congressional Democrats
all the time.
We don't have to have
dinner with them
to have conversations with them.
We'll continue to talk with them
about policy-related issues.
And again, I think that the fact
that there were
a number of Democrats
that were present
kind of negates the fact
00:09:42,648
that it wasn't
a bipartisan dinner.
--> 00:09:45,217
Charlie.
The Press: My other question --
Ms. Sanders:  Oh, sorry --
your second question.
The Press: -- was about
the proclamation the President
signed regarding
Armenia and Turkey.
He used the word,
Meds Yeghern,
which is Armenian for
"catastrophe" or "atrocity,"
but he never used the word
genocide  in this resolution.
Does the President believe
in Armenian genocide?
Ms. Sanders: I haven't had
a detailed conversation with him
about that,
but I understand that
the resolution the President
signed was consistent with
past administrations as well.
Charlie.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah.
Rap superstar Kanye West
has been in the news lately
for supporting the President
and expressing his admiration
for the President.
Ms. Sanders:  Covering
all range of topics today.
(Laughter.)
The Press: I'm curious whether
the President has reached out
to Kanye West
and whether he'd be willing
to meet with him
at the White House.
Ms. Sanders: I don't know
of any conversation
that they've had over
the last week or so.
I'll keep you posted
if that changes at any time.
Matthew.
The Press: Two weeks ago?
Ms. Sanders:  Sorry, I know
they met during the transition.
That's the only meeting
I'm aware
of that's taken place
for a conversation.
Before everybody has
a meltdown and thinks
that we had a meeting last week.
The Press: In today's Supreme
Court arguments about the travel
ban there was much discussion
of the President's proposal
during the campaign
that all Muslims
be barred from entering the U.S.
And it was noted during those
arguments that the President
has never actually
disavowed that proposal.
And it was also noted that
he had not made those comments
since being sworn
in as President.
So, I wanted to ask,
does the White House disavow
that campaign proposal,
or does it stand by it?
Ms. Sanders: The
administration's top priority
is to ensure the safety and
security of the American people.
For that reason,
the administration
has put in place enhanced
global security measures
to improve screening
and vetting capabilities
and share information.
It's working.
There's been
significant improvements
in identity management
and information
sharing with
foreign governments.
Because of this,
our international partners
have raised their own
baseline requirements.
Without the ability to impose
entry restrictions,
the United States may be forced
to unsuspectingly
allow dangerous criminals
or terrorists into the country.
Additionally, without
the restrictions,
foreign governments
have little incentive
to improve their
information-sharing
and identity-management
practices.
The focus of this travel ban
has been on safety and security,
is limited to a small
number of countries,
and a lot of
Muslim-majority countries
have the same abilities
to travel to and
from the United States
as they did in previous
administrations.
I think that alone, in action,
answers your question clearly.
Jim.
The Press: I just wanted to
follow up on Dr. Ronny Jackson.
Yesterday, the President
suggested that Dr. Jackson
does not have the experience
to run the Department
of Veterans Affairs.
Is that a fair assessment,
that he lacks that experience?
Ms. Sanders: That's not what
the President said.
I think you're taking some
of his words out of context.
And based on your tweet today --
The Press: He said experience
is an issue.
Ms. Sanders: -- I know
you don't appreciate
when people take your
words out of context.
So, I'd appreciate if you not
do that to the President.
If he didn't think
he had the experience,
he wouldn't have nominated.
He said that that had been
one of the questions
that people had posed about him.
Obviously,
the President thought --
The Press: So, he thinks Dr.
Jackson has all the experience
necessary to run the department?
Ms. Sanders:  Look, I think
he has an incredibly strong --
The Press: It's a yes
or no question.
Ms. Sanders: -- background.
He's a highly qualified,
highly skilled individual.
And if he didn't think he was
capable of doing the job,
he wouldn't have announced his
nomination in the first place.
The Press: Let me just
follow up, if I can.
Just since you brought up
being taken out of context,
if seems to be
a press-related question.
Are you trying to say
that this administration
is a champion of a free press?
That seems --
Ms. Sanders:  I certainly think
that, as I stated a moment ago,
we support a free press
but we also support
a fair press.
And I think that those things
should go hand in hand,
and there's a certain
responsibility by the press
to report accurate information.
I think a number of people --
The Press: Isn't there
a certain responsibility
on the part of the President --
Ms. Sanders:  I think a number
of people in this room
do that every single day.
They do their very best
to provide fair
and accurate information.
I certainly support that,
and that's one of the reasons
I'm standing here
taking your questions --
The Press: We appreciate that.
Ms. Sanders:  -- and a lot
of times taking your questions
in a tone that's completely
unnecessary, unneeded,
and, frankly, doesn't help
further the conversation
or help the American people
get any more information
in a better way,
which is your job and my job.
And that's what
I'm trying to do.
The Press: I fully appreciate
that. But, Sarah --
Ms. Sanders: I'm going
to move on. David, go ahead.
The Press: But the President's
tone towards the press --
Ms. Sanders: Jim,
I'm finished here.
The Press: The President's tone
towards the press is obviously
not helpful at times --
Ms. Sanders: Thank you, Jim.
The Press: -- and I think
that that's plain to see.
Ms. Sanders:  David.
The Press: A Navy inspector
general had problems
with the way Jackson
ran his medical office,
which only has 50 people in it.
What makes him qualified
to run a big department
that has 350,000 people?
Ms. Sanders:  Look, I saw
a number of members
of both the House and Senate
do interviews today,
just earlier this morning,
in which they said,
look, we've tried this
a number of other ways
with people who have run
massive organizations,
and it hasn't worked
out very well.
This is a different approach,
but it certainly doesn't mean
it's a wrong approach
or that he's not qualified.
This is somebody who's been
on the battlefields,
made decisions at
a very high-stress level,
and saved a number
of individuals'
lives in some of the most
trying circumstances.
Somebody that understands the
relationship between veterans,
and the needs and the care
that they have
as a veteran himself --
or as a service member himself,
and somebody who has
a relationship
and a deep-rooted care
and concern for those
individuals that may be far
and above what we've seen
from previous administrators
that have overseen that agency.
He's a highly
qualified individual,
and we're going to
continue looking at this
and continue
moving forward.
Julie.
The Press: Are you telling us
that the White House
was not aware of
any of the allegations
before the President
decided to name Dr. Jackson?
Just, first of all, to clarify.
Ms. Sanders: I'm telling you
that none of those things
have come up in the four
separate background
investigations
that have taken place.
There's been no area of concern
that was raised
for Dr. Jackson specifically.
The Press: Can you describe
to us, then,
what the vetting process
was at the White House
before he was named,
given that, as David
just mentioned,
there is an inspector
general report
and there have been
allegations in the past
that are now coming to light,
but they existed before
the President chose him?
Ms. Sanders:  Again, Dr. Jackson
has undergone
four separate background checks.
One that was
conducted by the FBI,
and all those revealed
nothing and came back
with a clean recommendation.
The Press: So, the only vetting
that was done of him
as a nominee was to look
at his past background checks,
is what you're telling us?
Ms. Sanders: No -- I mean,
there's a number of things.
But you also have to remember
this is somebody
that spends more time
with the President
than just about anyone.
These investigations
are very thorough
and certainly something that
was taken into consideration.
Blake.
The Press: Sarah, thank you.
Let me ask you
a couple questions
about the Tim Cook meeting
that is either wrapped
or going on right now.
Do you, by chance,
have a readout
of what exactly took place?
Did the President promise to --
Ms. Sanders:  The meeting
was still ongoing
when the briefing started.
I know that the primary focus
and purpose of the meeting
is to discuss trade.
It's something that's been
on the President's schedule
for the last couple of weeks.
If we have any additional
information, we'll let you know.
The Press: Let me ask you.
In the last month now,
the President has met
with Bill Gates,
who is the second-wealthiest
individual in the world.
Now he's meeting with Tim Cook,
who runs the largest company
in the United States.
Does the President have
any intentions, at any point,
to meet with the wealthiest
individual in the world,
Jeff Bezos?
And if so, under what
conditions would that be?
Ms. Sanders: I'm not aware
of that being on the schedule.
I certainly haven't seen it
on any of the look-aheads.
I think the President
would be open to it,
but I'm not aware of anything
being locked in at this point.
Ashley.
The Press: Sarah, Scott Pruitt
lived for below-market rent
in a Capitol Hill row house
owned by an energy
industry lobbyist.
He reportedly directed staff
to give raises to top aides,
and then obfuscated about it.
He spent over $150,000
of taxpayer dollars
on first-class travel.
And he reportedly
once even tried
to get his security detail
to use their sirens,
so he could get to
a reservation at Le Diplomate,
among other alleged
ethical lapses.
I know you've said yesterday
you were looking at reports
about him,
but can you sort of explain
why he still has a job
in the President's Cabinet,
and also how his behavior
is in keeping with the values
of draining the swamp?
Ms. Sanders: Again,
we're evaluating these concerns,
and we expect
the EPA Administrator
to answer for them,
and we'll keep you posted.
Ayesha.
The Press: Thanks.
Just to follow up on that --
when you say you expect
Administrator Pruitt
to answer for these accusations,
where do you expect
that to happen?
Like, are you looking
for this in hearings?
Is the White House
asking questions?
Ms. Sanders: We're having
ongoing conversations.
The Press: And also, just to
follow up on Jackson.
When you say that he's been
through four background checks,
can you say -- but these
allegations have now come up,
and some of them
are very serious --
is the White House going to
look into the allegations
that have been made against him
about drinking on the job
and (inaudible)?
Ms. Sanders: Certainly,
something that we
would look at, absolutely.
I'll take one last question.
Francesca.
The Press: Thank you, Sarah.
I wanted to clarify, too,
about these four
background checks.
Were any of these
background checks
since President Trump
took office
or since he was named
as the nominee for VA Secretary?
And has the White House
ever been informed
of allegations
like these -- like excessively
drinking on the job
or passing out medication
like candy, as it were --
since he was the physician
for President Trump?
Ms. Sanders: I'm not aware
of any of those allegations
being made until
the nomination was made.
The Press: And to follow up
on what I was asking
about the background check.
When was his most recent
background check?
Ms. Sanders: I'd have to look
at the specific date,
but my understanding
is that a new one took place
at the time of
the new administration.
Thanks, so much, guys,
see you tomorrow.